the map test is unlike any other exam
your child has taken at school by the
end of this video you'll know everything
you need to help your child succeed on
this test let's get started hi I'm Nina
from testprep-online this video is about
map growth a widely spread standardized
test designed for kindergarten through
twelfth grade students this test
assesses reading language usage math and
for some grades general sciences make
sure to stick around to the end of this
video as I'm going to give you some
helpful tips on how to effectively
prepare your child for this test
the map test is adaptive which means
that the difficulty level of the test
changes throughout the test according to
your child's ability this test starts
with a question that matches students
grade level each time your child answers
correctly the following question becomes
more difficult if your child answers
incorrectly the next question gets
easier this is why the map test is
unlike any other standardized test your
child has ever taken and why it's so
important to be familiar with the test
format and changing difficulty level
before the test day
the map test measures students progress
so that teachers can pinpoint the weaker
areas they need to work on as well as a
stronger areas where they need to be
challenged additionally this test can be
used to compare a group of students in
the same classroom to predict individual
achievements and to determine readiness
for the next semester
as mentioned before the map growth test
covers four main areas reading language
usage math and for higher grades general
Sciences this test uses a variety of
question types such as multiple choice
fill in the blanks and drag-and-drop
answers scores for the map test are
reported using the writ scale this scale
measures the value of a student's score
in relation to his or her scores on
previous tests so this scale can be used
to measure progress and academic growth
from year to year map test questions
receive the RIT values after being
tested on thousands of students across
the u.s. the numerical RIT value that a
student receives predicts that they are
likely to answer about 50 percent of the
questions correctly at that specific
difficulty level now let's go over the
three main sections of the map test
the math section on this test covers a
specific list of topics ranging from
basic to advanced math while including
algebra geometry computation statistics
and more does your child feel a little
anxious about the map math section not
sorry that's quite normal
math anxiety affects approximately a
quarter of the population and starts
appearing as early as first grade from
our experience we know that with the
correct amount of practice in motivation
your child can overcome any mathematical
doubts he or she may have
the map language usage section assesses
students based on their writing
strategies writing application style
mechanics and grammar
the last part of the map test we're
going to cover in this video is a map
reading section
the reading section measures one's
knowledge of different types of writing
forms and ability to analyze paragraphs
to correctly draw on main ideas concepts
and themes to improve your child's
reading read scores
we recommend helping them become an
active reader actively reading means
keeping yourself focused on the main
goals of the text and searching for the
main purpose of each paragraph this
skill is absolutely vital for reading
comprehension questions
good news the map test is untimed but
watch out there is a catch after
submitting an answer your child will not
be allowed to view it again so it's
important that your child carefully read
all the instructions and check answers
before submitting them this way they can
avoid misunderstanding a question and
answering incorrectly if you'd like to
get more map sample questions expert
tips and tailored test preparation make
sure to visit our dedicated map pages
that's all for today I hope you've
learned and enjoyed and now it's time to
start practicing thanks for watching and
good luck
[Music]